Transcript


[Music]
Welcome to Access Asia. I'm Yuka Hoy and
here's what's coming up in this edition.
What's next for Nepal? After deadly Gen
Zed protests saw dozens dead, the prime
minister toppled and government
buildings set on fire. Even though calm
has been restored on the streets, public
anger continues to simmer.
More than 300 South Korean workers
detained in an immigration raid in the
United States have returned home. The
event has sent shock waves through
boardrooms with South Korea's president
warning it could make them hesitate to
invest in the US.
Waterlies as far as the eye can see.
We'll visit a seasonal lake in India
that offers both a spectacular landscape
to visitors and income to flood affected
locals.
Nepal is trying to pick up the pieces
after two days of deadly unrest forced
the prime minister out. Initially
triggered by the government's ban on
social media, protests led by the
nation's Gen Zed quickly degenerated
into violence, leaving more than 30
people dead. The United Nations and
human rights agencies have expressed
concerns about the force used on
protesters. Olivia Salazar Winspair
tells us more.
An uneasy calm in a country under
curfew. Troops are patrolling the
streets in Nepal, threatening to crack
down without hesitation on any new
demonstrations or acts of vandalism.
Burnt out cars and buildings serve as a
reminder of the public anger which has
not completely subsided despite the
resignation of Prime Minister Sharma
Olli following widespread protests. The
Gen Z demonstrations began after a
social media ban on September 4th when
26 networks were blocked for failing to
register with the Nepalese Ministry of
Communication.
Authorities said the move was designed
to tackle fake news, hate speech, and
fraud. While protesters believe the ban
was an attempt to silence criticism of
the government.
Initially buil as a peaceful movement,
the protests turned deadly when police
officers opened fire on demonstrators,
the gatherings grew increasingly violent
and soon after government buildings and
politicians homes had been set a light.
The social media ban was quickly
reversed. And while it may have been the
spark for these protests, many Nepalese
people say corruption and nepotism are
the major concerns as the country
grapples with political instability and
economic stagnation.
They ruled for several years. They
deceived the poor and spend citizens
money for their own profit.
Despite the damage, it's a historic
revolution that's awakened me and my
compatriots.
Everything will change with the fall of
the government. From now on, citizens
will get their fair share.
Activity has resumed, including for the
protest movement on platforms like
Instagram and Facebook, which have
millions of accounts in Nepal, one of
the highest user rates per capita in
South Asia. While most military and
political figures have clashed with the
so-called Gen Z protesters, the mayor of
Katmandeue, Balen Sha, has published
messages of support to those calling for
change while also calling for restraint.
It was a scene that shocked the
corporate world. Almost 500 people were
rounded up as US agents in military
uniforms raided a battery plant jointly
owned by Hyundai and LG in one of the
largest immigration raids in US history.
Many of the arrested were South Korean
workers. The event came just weeks after
Soul agreed a trade deal with
Washington, which included a new
investment by South Korea in US-owned
industries to the tune of $350 billion.
As he marked 100 days after taking over
a country in crisis, President Lee Jmong
warned of possible consequences of the
raid.
They're deporting people in drastic
ways. It seems like we were one of the
cases that got caught in the crackdown.
This could probably have a significant
impact on future direct investments in
the US. If the US has practical needs,
they won't leave the issue unresolved.
But under the current circumstances,
direct investment in the US is something
our companies are likely to hesitate
about.
Well, for more on this story, let's
bring in Jay Song, honorary associate
professor of the Australian National
University. Thank you for joining us.
Thanks for having me.
The raid really seemed like a slap in
the face for President Lee Lee uh of
South Korea, who visited Washington only
last month for a bilateral summit with
Donald Trump. Now he's warning about
future investments that we've just
heard. What could be the fallout now?
It's actually working against the US own
national interest because uh those
factories in Georgia without these uh
highly skilled uh South Korean workers
uh cannot run. Uh in fact the factory
processing has been halted since the ICE
raid on South Koreans. Uh, President
Donald Trump seemed to be uh, sort of
quickly realized that the ICE has
completely messed up with his valuable
client and investor South Korean as uh,
uh, you know, these PE companies without
uh, any apologies. However, President
Trump offered uh, you know, any Koreans
in these factories uh, can remain in the
US if they wish to do so. But uh, it
seems that no thanks. The all Koreans
have have gone home except for one whose
families are permanent resident in the
US.
Yeah. And many South Korean companies
must be asking the question now, is it
worth doing business with America?
Oh yeah, that's true. Uh in President
Eyang's press conference, he seemed to
sort of keep his distance from uh this
saga. He even characterized this event
as a cultural difference, which is a bit
uh awkward as well. In other words, the
US has a a harsh policy on tourist visa
holders. Uh whereas in South Korea, it
is normal uh for foreign visitors
including Americans uh to come and work
as English teachers and uh South Koreans
don't do this kind of a massive sort of
military style raid on these uh uh um uh
uh tourist visa holders. But it's not
exactly true as the South Korean minig
immigration laws are highly restrictive.
Um uh but the president Lee has referred
to the South Korean companies that uh uh
they would be more reluctant to operate
in in in business in the US. So he's
sort of keeping his distance from uh you
know this whole u you know saga and sort
of um uh playing the ball uh you know
giving giving the responsibility or the
response to the companies Hyundai and LG
and some other uh 20 uh uh uh or
something South Korean companies that uh
have an operation in the US at the
moment. Now, this raid, but also recent
trade deals with South Korea and also uh
Japan, which many see as not very
balanced, show just how far the US
president can go to threaten even
longtime allies, not just in uh
commercial relationships, but in
military uh military allies to pursue
his agenda. Could such an approach harm
the relationship?
That's a really good question. It's not
just the South Korean but I mean it can
apply to all uh US partners and allies
in the region or around the world. uh
because the trade deal was made between
the two heads of state uh just last
month uh with a major South Korean
investment in the US uh uh and uh Lee
President Lee seems to suggest that it's
not uh his government but the companies
based in the US that will make the
decision to withdraw or not but it's
very unlikely that uh you know these
main um main battery factories had
already been uh built in Georgia uh and
moving them to another location would be
uh very very costly and involve a
massive financial loss
on the South Korean side that could this
incident spark fury and perhaps anti-US
sentiment among ordinary people.
Yes, it's already uh sparked a a big big
uh f theory amongst the South Korean
citizens. There's a a latest poll
suggest that 70% of the South Korean
respondent uh to this poll uh uh saying
that it's the the US fault and why
should we invest um you know our our big
companies and battery factory building
battery factories in the US when our
workers our own citizens are u
maltreated in in this manner. So um
there is a very um sort of anti-American
sentiment is growing at the moment. Uh
and the government seem to sort of
control uh um you know this uh kind of
sentiment so that they can carry on uh
this bilateral trade relation and um
even bigger uh you know relation between
the two countries.
Well Jong from the Australian National
University, thank you so much for your
insights.
Thank you so much.
Now it may feel like nirvana on earth so
picture perfect that one might think
it's AI generated for a fleeting period
each year lake Malakai in Kerala
southern India turns pink its surface
covered with waterlies it's actually a
byproduct of monsoon rains that flood
farmland each year but instead of just
waiting for water to recede local
farmers can also get some extra income
from the lotus flowers and tourism or
clue OAP and our colleagues at France
have this report.
A rare sight revealed at the crack of
dawn. Welcome to the village of Malarol,
southern India, where the lake is
covered in pink waterlies that bloom
only at sunrise.
In a few hours, they will close again,
shielding from the sun. To witness
mother nature's beauty, these visitors
had to wake up extra early. It is very
cooling for your eyes. Uh very relaxing
for your mind and you can actually keep
quiet and listen. There are only noise
of the birds. And my daughter wanted to
see this. She told everyone at school
she was coming here. So we had no
choice.
In just a few years, this lotus lake has
become a tourist sensation
drawing visitors from across India.
Turn your head this way. No, maybe more
like that.
A romantic spot for young couples like
this one who chose this backdrop for
their engagement photos.
I first saw this place on social media
and I couldn't stop thinking about it.
Every time I saw a picture, I told him,
"We have to go."
Honestly, I only came because she
wouldn't stop talking about it. Now I
see it. I'm speechless.
Today, blossoms cover the entire lake,
but soon they will disappear.
It's a special site because flowers only
bloom for two or three months.
That's why couples flock here for their
engagement photos.
[Music]
Beneath the lake lies a rice field.
It's submerged every year by the
monsoon.
Locals have to wait for the water to
recede before farming again.
In the meantime, they rely on tourism to
feed the 400 families living nearby.
[Music]
At this time of year, none of us had an
income. But now, God has given us these
flowers. I sell 30 bouquets every day
and earn €10. A home earning €10 a day
is a happy home.
In just a few weeks, Kerala's floating
garden will dry up only to bloom again
with the next monsoon.
That's all for this edition of Access
Asia. Thanks for watching, but do stay
tuned if you can. There's more world
news coming up here on France 24.
[Music]

